# TractX: A Density-Aware Streamline Exclusion System for Accurate White Matter Reconstruction 

**NOTE:** Currently a code dump...organizing soon!

## <h2 id="about">Abstract</a> </h2>
White matter tractography is a non-invasive diffusion-imaging tool essential to analyzing brain connectivity; it is the most prevalent system for pre-operative and research-based analysis. However, it faces challenges from erroneous methodologies ignoring bottleneck regions where multiple white matter bundles converge before diverging. This results in false-positive paths in around ~70% of voxels (3D MRI pixels) and an exceedingly low precision of ~23%. TractX aims to resolve bottlenecks through a three-part pipeline of systematic identification and alteration utilizing a novel nerve-density-analysis architecture. The prototype initially conducts Constrained Spherical Deconvolution (CSD) on 1mm dMRI images to produce a field orientation distribution (FOD) of individual voxels. The FOD is then parsed to a bottleneck identification system in which fiber-vectors assigned to multiple bundles are extracted alongside relevant data, including fiber-density and associated voxels. Next, the data is transformed into a feature vector representing selectively weighted characteristics of the bottleneck through a linear regression model trained with gradient descent. An Approximate Nearest Neighbors procedure deconstructs the vector into a low-dimensional space before streamlines are associated by distance in the vector space. Finally, TractX regenerates bottlenecks through CSD, connecting in and out fibers. 
